(DOCSP-29602): Swift: Clarify Notification Delivery (#2786)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/swift/react-to-changes.txt

Notification Delivery
---------------------

Notification delivery can vary depending on whether or not the notification 

> occurs within a write transaction, and the relative threads of the write

Reviewer: Don't use commas when the subject doesn't change between clauses:
```suggestion
occurs within a write transaction and the relative threads of the write
```

It's a complicated sentence, so it might merit breaking into a bulleted list?

and the observation. When your application relies on the timing of 
notification delivery, such as when you use notifications to update a 
``UITableView``, it's important to understand the specific behaviors for 

> the context in which your application code runs.

Reviewer: Maybe?
```suggestion
your application code's context.
```

Perform Writes Only on a Different Thread than the Observing Thread

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
```

Reading an observed collection or object from inside a change notification 
always accurately tells you what has changed in the collection passed to 
the callback since the last time the callback was invoked.

Reading collections or objects outside of change notifications always gives 

> you the exact same values as you saw in the most recent change notification 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
you the exact same values you saw in the most recent change notification 
```

for that object.

Reading objects other than the observed one *inside* a change notification 
may see a different value prior to the notification for that change being 

> delivered. Refreshes happen at the realm level of granularity while change 

Reviewer: "Refreshes happen..." This sentence is ambiguous: refreshes happen ... WHILE change notifs aren't batched? Or refreshes happen ... WHEREAS ... ? Either way, for clarity, I need parallel structure on either side here. The connection between "realm level of granularity" and "batched in a single callback" is not immediately obvious.

Author: I admit, I copied this paragraph directly from Thomas's post with minimal edits because I had trouble following it. I'll try to get clarification.

Reviewer: Yes, I think what he's trying to say here is that `refresh` automatically brings the entire realm from 'old version' to 'latest version' whereas there might be multiple change notifications fired between 'old version' and 'latest version'.

notifications aren't batched together into a single callback. Inside a 

> callback, you may see changes which have pending notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
callback, you may see changes that have pending notifications.
```

Writes on different threads eventually become visible on the observing 
thread. Explicitly calling ``refresh()`` blocks until the writes made on 
other threads are visible and the appropriate notifications have been sent. 

> If you call ``refresh()`` from within a notification callback, it's a no-op.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you call ``refresh()`` within a notification callback, it's a no-op.
```

Perform Writes on the Observing Thread, Outside of Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

At the start of the write transaction all behaviors above apply to this 
context. Additionally, you can expect to always see the latest version of 
the data.

Inside a write transaction, the only changes you see are those you've made 
so far within the write transaction.

Between committing a write transaction and the next set of change 
notifications being sent, you can see the changes you made in the write 
transaction, but no other changes. Writes made on different threads do 
not become visible until you receive the next set of notifications. 
Performing another write on the same thread sends notifications for the 
previous write first.

Perform Writes Inside of Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When you perform writes within notifications, you see many of the same 
behaviors above, with a few exceptions.

> Callbacks invoked before the one which perform a write behave normally. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Callbacks invoked before the one that performed a write behave normally. 
```

While Realm invokes change callbacks in a stable order, this is not strictly 
the order in which you added the observations.

If beginning the write refreshes the realm, which can happen if another 
thread is making writes, this triggers recursive notifications. These 
nested notifications report the changes made since the last call to the 
callback. For callbacks before the one making the write, this means the 
inner notification reports only the changes made after the ones already 
reported in the outer notification. If the callback making the write tries 
to write again in the inner notification, Realm throws an exception. 
The callbacks after the one making the write get a single notification for 
both sets of changes.

After the callback completes the write and returns, Realm does not invoke 
any of the subsequent callbacks as they no longer have any changes to report. 
Realm provides a notification later for the write as if the write had happened 
outside of a notification.

> If beginning the write doesn't refresh the Realm, the write happens as 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If beginning the write doesn't refresh the realm, the write happens as 
```

usual. However, Realm invokes the subsequent callbacks in an inconsistent 
state. They continue to report the original change information, but the 
observed object/collection now includes the changes from the write made 
in the previous callback.

If you try to perform manual checks and write handling to get more fine-grained
notifications from within a write transaction, you can get notifications 

> nested more than two levels deep. This includes things like checking 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nested more than two levels deep. An example of a manual write handling is checking
```

      dog.realm!.writeAsync {
         dog.isPuppy = dog.age < 2
      }
   }

However, because the write is async the realm may have changed between the 
notification and when the write happens. In this case, the change information 
passed to the notification may no longer be applicable.

Updating a UITableView Based on Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you only update a ``UITableView`` via notifications, in the time between 
a write transaction and the next notification arriving, the TableView's 
state is out of sync with the data. The TableView could have a pending update 
scheduled, which can appear to cause delayed or inconsistent updates.

You can address these behaviors in a few ways.

The following examples use this very basic ``UITableViewController``.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/Notifications/UITableViewController.swift
   :language: swift
   :copyable: false

Update the UITableView Directly Without a Notification
``````````````````````````````````````````````````````

Updating the ``UITableView`` directly without waiting for a notification 
provides the most responsive UI. This code updates the TableView immediately 

> instead of requiring a few hops between threads that adds a small amount of 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
instead of requiring hops between threads, which add a small amount of 
```

lag to each update. The downside is that it requires frequent manual 
updates to the view.

.. literalinclude:: /examples/Notifications/UpdateTableSkipNotification.swift
   :language: swift
   :copyable: false

Force a Refresh After a Write
`````````````````````````````

Forcing a ``refresh()`` after a write provides the notifications from the 
write immediately rather than on a future run of the run loop. There's no 

> window for the TableView to read out-of-sync values. The downside is that 

Reviewer: This also implies doing a write transaction on the main thread, which was not recommended...?
